# UX Redesign Idea Dump

Ok, this repo contains the initial implementation for this project. It works (for what I can tell in brief testing, maybe some minor bugs), but the UX feels a little clunky or unintuitive. Specifically, the fact that users need to be aware and directly interact with the daemon process that supports this tool - it is a implementation detail that user's should not need to concern themselves with. Ideally, users would be able to interact with this tool without needing to be aware that it relys on a background daemons, WebDAV and network symlinks, etc etc. Let's take a first principals approach and redesign the cli interface. First, let's come up with a plan to redesign the cli interface (and possibly the daemon and WebDAV servers endpoints, if needed), so that this tool is more intuitive to users, and so that certian use cases are streamlined and require less intimate knowledge of how this tool works internally. Do not implement this plan at first, let's first agree on an approach and have documentation documents describing exactly what we plan to change. Once we've agreed on this redesign and the documentation is finalized, then you are free to start implementing it. So, to start the redesign discussuion, I think that the daemon should something that user's *can* interface with, if they want, but should not need to interface with ever. So, for example, when a user runs `envd init`, the tool should first check to see if the daemon is running, and if not, start it. Same for all commands actually - they should do a quick status check to make sure that the supporting daemons/servers/background-processes are running and in an OK state before proceeding. Maybe they ever attempt to resolve any common issues if these background processes are in a error state? Moving onto the other commands - Let's take a first principals approach with the design. From a user's perspective, when first trying out this tool, they will see this tool in github, install it, and run the commands that they see in the project's readme. From their perspective they have some .env files that they have traditionally managed themselves. When they run the command(s) in the readme, the tool should feel like it's magically taking over control of these .env files (in a good way) - they should feel like all of the sudden they have a production grade tool managing their secrets, all from running a command or two. I'm imaginging user's running something like `envd init`, and this tool scanning the current project directory tree for all .env files (following various naming conventions that might be followed, like "dev.env", ".env.dev", or ".dev.env" etc), gathering all the env files and inteligently determining what environments that they've got, then if the user has already used this tool before and have previously connected a provider before (from the config in the `~/.config/envd/...` directory) it should (maybe) assume that they will want to create this project in the secrets provider (if a project doesn't already exist). If the user has never used the tool before we should automatically use a local-file provider - I am leaning towards this design decision becase user's will not initially be aware of what a provider is and how they work, and it will be a UX detractor if we make them learn this to start using the tool. So if they've never used the tool, create a local-file provider and push all the .env file(s) to it as environments. Subsequently, all the other .env files should be deleted (!!) - I know this might seem destructive, but the tools should make it crystal clear that the values have all been recorded and stored in the secret provider, and can be used/injected with an interactive command like `envd use` (which brings up an interactive environment selector), or non-interactively with something like `envd use dev` (which skips the interactive part and automatically sets the environemnt variables in the .env symlink file to contain whatever that environment has). So now that the user's secrets are managed with this tool, they should be instructed about the `envd use ...` commands, or that they can run their project with secrets with something like `envd run dev -- {the commands that they use to start thier project}` (ex: `envd run dev -- node ./src/ index.js`). When the users change values in the .env file, the envd tool should be clear that there are un-commited changes in it. Also, if there are un-commited changes in let's say "dev", switching to a different environment like "stage" should not delete the un-commited changes in dev. The `envd status` command should be redesigned to be cenetered more around the status of un-commited changes, or new changes from the secrets provider that they haven't pull locally, instead of the status of the daemon and such. The daemon status could be viewed with something like `envd daemon status`, or maybe `envd status --full` or something like that. In the scenario that a user is using this tool for the first time and they haven't configured their own secrets provider, we should "pull" them into using our own secrets provider (that will be free for small teams but be a paid service for commercial use) - so when the run `envd init` (and they've never linked a secrets provider), we should create a project in our own secrets provider in the cloud, and tell them that they can manage these secrets for their team and view them with `envd open`, which will open a browser window with our secrets manager with their prioject loaded (should look like doppler). I think for now, we can just serve a very simple **local only** version of this secret provider website, served by the daemon (or similar background process), so they can view their secrets in a browser. The secret's should also be viewable in the CLI with a TUI-like browser. These are my initial thoughts on how this tool should be redesigned to improve the UX. Let me know what you think, and what areas I have not covered.
